Adding configurable delimiters (#4265)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/delimiter.md

---
resource_types: [seeds]
datatype: <string>
default_value: ","
---

## Definition

> An optional seed configuration used to customize how you separate values in a [seed](/docs/build/seeds) with the one-character string you provide.

Reviewer: Might just be me but this reads like it's changing the way the values are separated in the seed file, but if I understand this correctly, what it's doing is telling dbt how the values are separated (comma for CSV, newlines for TSV, and so on)

If I don't have that backwards, maybe something like this:
```suggestion
An optional seed configuration used to define how values are separated in a [seed](/docs/build/seeds) with the one-character string you provide.
```

* The delimiter defaults to a comma when not specified.

> * Explicitly set The `delimiter` configuration value if you want seed files to use a different delimiter, such as "|" or ";".

Reviewer: Same feedback here as above - is this feature changing the seed file or telling dbt how to interpret it?

> * Explicitly set The `delimiter` configuration value if you want seed files to use a different delimiter, such as "|" or ";".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Explicitly set the `delimiter` configuration value if you want seed files to use a different delimiter, such as "|" or ";".
```

:::info New in 1.7!

Delimiter is new functionality available beginning with dbt Core v1.7.

:::

  
## Usage

Specify a delimiter in your `dbt_project.yml` file to customize the global separator for all seed values:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  <project_name>:
     +delimiter: "|" # default project delimiter for seeds will be "|"

>     <seed_name>:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <seed_subdirectory>:
```

>       +delimiter: "," # delimiter for seeds in seed_name will be ","

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      +delimiter: "," # delimiter seed_name will be ","
```

>       +delimiter: "," # delimiter for seeds in seed_name will be ","

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      +delimiter: "," # delimiter for seeds in seed_subdirectory will be ","
```

```

</File>

Or use a custom delimiter to override the values for a specific seed:

<File name='seeds/properties.yml'>

```yml
version: 2

seeds:
  - name: <seed_name>
    config: 
      delimiter: "|"
```

</File>

## Examples
For a project with:

* `name: jaffle_shop` in the `dbt_project.yml` file
* `seed-paths: ["seeds"]` in the `dbt_project.yml` file

### Use a custom delimiter to override global values

You can set a default behavior for all seeds with an exception for one seed, `seed_a`, which uses a comma:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  jaffle_shop: 

>     +delimiter: "|"  # default delimiter for seeds in jaffle_shop project will be "|"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    +delimiter: "|" # default delimiter for seeds in jaffle_shop project will be "|"
```

    seed_a:
      +delimiter: "," # delimiter for seed_a will be ","
```

</File>

> Or you can configure custom behavior for one seed. The `country_codes` uses the "|" delimiter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or you can configure custom behavior for one seed. The `country_codes` uses the ";" delimiter:
```

<File name='seeds/properties.yml'>

```yml
version: 2

seeds:
  - name: country_codes
    config:
      delimiter: ";"
```

</File>

> And results in a CSV like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your corresponding seed files would be formatted like so:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: <File name='seeds/my_seed.csv'>

```text
col_a|col_b|col_c
1|2|3
4|5|6
...
```

</File>

<File name='seeds/ seed_a.csv'>

```text
name,id
luna,1
doug,2
...
```

</File>

Author: Added these examples too!

> 

Author: ```suggestion

<File name='seeds/my_seed.csv'>

```text
col_a|col_b|col_c
1|2|3
4|5|6
...
```

</File>

<File name='seeds/ seed_a.csv'>

```text
name,id
luna,1
doug,2
...
```

</File>

```

<File name='seeds/country_codes.csv'>

> ```text
> country_code|country_name
> US|United States
> CA|Canada
> GB|United Kingdom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```text
country_code;country_name
US;United States
CA;Canada
GB;United Kingdom
```

---
resource_types: [seeds]
datatype: <string>
default_value: ","
---

## Definition

> An optional seed configuration used to separate values in a [seed](/docs/build/seeds) with a string you provide. The delimiter defaults to comma.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An optional seed configuration used to separate values in a [seed](/docs/build/seeds) with a string you provide.
```

Reviewer 2: Any reason to not call out the default here @mirnawong1 ?

Reviewer 3: @graciegoheen , not so much that i don't want to call it out, but i [suggested further up](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/4265#discussion_r1356522805) to have it be a bullet, along with the other recommended configs

Reviewer 3: these are just my non blocker suggestions though!

> 

Reviewer 3: this could be something for the tech review but does it also accept other values such as:

```
seeds:
  <project_name>:
    <seed_directory_name>
      +delimiter: "|"
```

Reviewer 2: That's right!

> 

Reviewer 3: recommend moving the recommended configs section higher up

```suggestion

* The delimiter defaults to a comma.
* Explicitly set this value if you want seed files to use a different delimiter (default is comma).
* The `delimiter` configuration should contain a value and not be empty.
```

Reviewer 2: You only need to explicitly set this value if you want your seed files to use a different delimiter (the comma default is the current behavior, and should work for most folks!)

Reviewer 3: gotcha! thanks for clarifying - so maybe:

>Explicitly set this value if using seed files to use a different delimiter (default is comma).

## Usage

> Specify delimiter in your `dbt_project.yml` file:

Author: ```suggestion
Specify delimiter in your `dbt_project.yml` file to globally separate all seed values:
```

> Specify delimiter in your `dbt_project.yml` file to globally separate all seed values:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Specify a delimiter in your `dbt_project.yml` file to globally separate all seed values:
```

> Specify delimiter in your `dbt_project.yml` file to globally separate all seed values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specify a delimiter in your `dbt_project.yml` file to override the global separator for all seed values:
```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  +quote_columns: False

>   +delimiter: ","

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  +delimiter: ";"
```
Comma is the default, so I'd probably show an example of overriding the default here

```

</File>

> Or:

Author: ```suggestion
Or only separate values with a delimiter in the seeds/mappings directory:
```

> Or only separate values with a delimiter in the seeds/mappings directory:

Reviewer 2: What is the `seeds/mappings` directory?

Reviewer 2: That seems to go to the `Use a comma delimiter` example, not the `properties.yml` example

<File name='seeds/properties.yml'>

```yml
version: 2

seeds:
  quote_columns: False
  delimiter: ","
```

</File>

## Examples
For a project with:

* `name: jaffle_shop` in the `dbt_project.yml` file
* `seed-paths: ["seeds"]` in the `dbt_project.yml` file

> ### Use a comma delimiter

Reviewer 2: This is the default, you wouldn't need to explicitly set this unless you'd overridden the global delimiter 

```yml
seeds:
  jaffle_shop: 
    +delimiter: "|"
    mappings:
      +delimiter: ","
```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  jaffle_shop: # you must include the project name
    mappings:
      +delimiter: ","
```

</File>

> Or

Reviewer 3: might be good to add more context on this 'or' section/option? eg:

Or in the seeds/mappings directory:

<File name='seeds/properties.yml'>

```yml
version: 2

seeds:
  - name: mappings
    config:
      delimiter: ","
```

</File>

> ## Recommended configuration

Reviewer 3: i feel like this should be placed higher up

> ## Recommended configuration

Reviewer 3: i feel like this should be placed higher up

```suggestion
```

> * Explicitly set this value if using seed files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: You don't need to explicitly set the value if you want to use the default (comma)

> * The `delimiter` configuration should contain a value and not be empty.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Unless you want to use the default

---
resource_types: [seeds]
datatype: <string>
default_value: ","
---

## Definition

> An optional seed configuration, used to delimit [seed](/docs/build/seeds) by providing a string value. The delimiter defaults to comma.

Author: ```suggestion
An optional seed configuration used to separate values in a [seed](/docs/build/seeds) with a string you provide. The delimiter defaults to comma.
```

## Usage
Specify delimiter in your `dbt_project.yml` file:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  +quote_columns: False
  +delimiter: ","
```

</File>

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
resource_types: [seeds]
datatype: <string>
default_value: ","
---

## Definition

An optional seed configuration used to customize how you separate values in a [seed](/docs/build/seeds) with the one-character string you provide.

* The delimiter defaults to a comma when not specified.

> * Explicitly set The `delimiter` configuration value if you want seed files to use a different delimiter, such as "|" or ";" (default is comma).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Explicitly set The `delimiter` configuration value if you want seed files to use a different delimiter, such as "|" or ";".
```
Since we say default is comma in the previous bullet point, I think we're covered!

:::info New in 1.7!

Delimiter is new functionality available beginning with dbt Core v1.7.

:::

  
## Usage

Specify a custom delimiter in your `dbt_project.yml` file to override the global separator for all seed values:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  <project_name>:

>      +delimiter: "|"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     +delimiter: "|" # default project delimiter for seeds will be "|"
```

    <seed_directory_name>:

>       +delimiter: ","

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      +delimiter: "," # delimiter for seeds in seed_directory_name will be ","
```

```

</File>

Or use a custom delimiter to override the values for a specific seed:

<File name='seeds/properties.yml'>

```yml
version: 2

seeds:

>   - name: <seed_directory_name>

Reviewer 2: why do we have a seed named seed_director_name? should this just be seed_name?

Reviewer 2: You can configure delimiter similarly to how you would configure quote_columns, so we could follow the example pattern from that page https://docs-getdbt-com-git-delimiter-adding-dbt-labs.vercel.app/reference/resource-configs/quote_columns#only-quote-seeds-in-the-seedsmappings-directory

Author: Thanks @graciegoheen! I copied examples from the comments in the Core PR thread, so glad you cleaned them up! I will reference quote columns and glean form there!

    config: 
      delimiter: "|"
```

</File>

## Examples
For a project with:

* `name: jaffle_shop` in the `dbt_project.yml` file
* `seed-paths: ["seeds"]` in the `dbt_project.yml` file

### Use a custom delimiter to overrride global values

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  jaffle_shop: 

>     +delimiter: "|"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    +delimiter: "|"  # default delimiter for seeds in jaffle_shop project will be "|"
```

    seed_a:

>       +delimiter: ","

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      +delimiter: "," # delimiter for seed_a will be ","
```

```

</File>

Or for certain seeds:

<File name='seeds/properties.yml'>

```yml
version: 2

seeds:

>   - name: seed_a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - name: seed_b
```
So it's not confusing that the previous example sets `seed_a` to ","

    config:

>       delimiter: "|"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      delimiter: ";"
```

So it's different from the default global delimiter set in the previous example

---
resource_types: [seeds]
datatype: <string>
---

## Description

Optionally specify a custom delimiter for [seed](/docs/build/seeds) by providing a string value. The delimiter defaults to comma.

## Usage
Specify column types in your `dbt_project.yml` file:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  jaffle_shop:
    country_codes:
      +column_types:
        country_code: varchar(2)
        country_name: varchar(32)
      +delimiter: ","
```

</File>

Or:

<File name='seeds/properties.yml'>

```yml
version: 2

seeds:
  - name: country_codes
    config:
      column_types:
        country_code: varchar(2)
        country_name: varchar(32)
      delimiter: ","
```

</File>

If you have previously run `dbt seed`, you'll need to run `dbt seed --full-refresh` for the changes to take effect.

Note that you will need to use the fully directory path of a seed when configuring `delimiter`. For example, for a seed file at `seeds/marketing/utm_mappings.csv`, you will need to configure it like so:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  jaffle_shop:
    marketing:
      utm_mappings:
        +delimiter:
          ...

```

</File>

## Examples

> ### Use a varchar column type to preserve leading zeros in a zipcode

Author: ```suggestion
### Use a comma delimiter
```

> (Note: preservation of leading zeros works for v0.16.0 onwards)

Author: ```suggestion
```

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
seeds:
  jaffle_shop: # you must include the project name
    warehouse_locations:
      +delimiter: ","
```

</File>

## Recommendation

Use this configuration only when required. Otherwise you can omit this configuration.

## Troubleshooting

> The `delimiter` configuration should contain a value when set and not be empty. This value should not be set to a semicolon.

Author: ```suggestion
The `delimiter` configuration should contain a value when set and not be empty.
```

---
resource_types: [seeds]
datatype: <string>
---

## Description

> Optionally specify a delimiter for [seed](/docs/build/seeds), by providing a string value. The defaults to comma.

Author: ```suggestion
Optionally specify a custom delimiter for [seed](/docs/build/seeds) by providing a string value. The delimiter defaults to comma.
```

> Without specifying this, dbt will infer the datatype based on the column values in your seed file.

Author: ```suggestion
```
